* Mercedes-Benz 124 A/C data stream decoder

This crude Python program decodes the data stream output from some air
conditioner control units used in Mercedes-Benz model 124. Reverse
engineering documentation about the format of the data stream and its
contents is available in ~doc/~. Captures of data streams for offline
testing are available in ~testdata/~.

Schematic diagram of a known working hardware solution, a simple
diode-zener-resistor circuit to convert the 7.2Â Vp-p serial data
signal to TTL, is available in ~doc/TTL_adapter_schematic.pdf~.
Additionally an FTDI TTL-232R-5V USB serial cable is required.

This is purely a research project and therefore proper support of
similar commercial solutions cannot be guaranteed. Documentation will
most likely be limited.

Also, /this program is not a fault code scanner/. The few modules
supported by this software do not have a known functionality at the
control unit to read fault codes through the serial interface.
However, the same diagnostic connector can be used to switch the
module to a diagnostic mode to read pulse codes with a pulse counter
or an LED.

Suggestions for improvement may be done by submitting an issue.


* decoder.py

The decoder requires Python 3.10 (match-case is used) and currently
depends on ~argparse~, ~curses~, ~serial~, and ~time~. The program is
developed and known to run on Debian 12 bookworm and Arch Linux.

Offline testing of the decoder can be done by supplying the program a
capture of a data stream, for example:

: ./decoder.py -f testdata/driving.bin

Run ~./decoder.py -h~ for other options.

When using a data stream capture from a file as the data source, it
can be seeked back and forwards with ~h~, ~j~, ~k~, and ~l~ keys. The
seek length is -60, -10, +10, and +60 packets respectively. Position
in file is shown next to the packet ticker. When end of file is
reached, seeking back is possible with ~h~ with the option of
restarting with ~r~.

Seeking is not available when decoding a live data stream.


** In case module ~serial~ is not found

You may need to install this module manually unless it's already
installed in your system.

For Debian 12 bookworm (and trixie/testing at the time of writing
this):

: apt install python3-serial

For Arch Linux:

: pacman -S python-pyserial

For other distributions you may need to search the appropriate package
from the distribution's repositories.


* Trademarks

Any trademarks, registered or not, current or expired, are used only
for identification purposes. The contents of this repository has
otherwise no relation of any kind to the past or current owners of
trademarks mentioned.
